# NC Snakingdom
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/Owxd2rVAJqg>
#### Description:
This project is called Reptiles and the final project is the first component of the Reptiles project, representing Snakes of North Carolina. The purpose of the website is to educate viewers on the snakes found in the state.  Many people have an aversion toward snakes and act in fear, often killing those seen in nature for fear the snake is dangerous.  We hope to improve the knowledge base people in North Carolina have in order that they can make informed decisions regarding the treatment of snakes encountered in the wild. We further hope to reduce the likelihood that harmless snakes are misidentified as venomous and needlessly killed and also to demystify the few venomous snakes that live in the state.
  
Yebai Guo designed the wiki-style educational portion of the site, which includes a database of North Carolina snakes grouped by Venomous vs. Harmless. Users can view the list of Venomous /Harmless Snakes by clicking on the links on the homepage. Then the user can select a specific snake to learn more about its scientific name, characteristics and range of habitat. Logged in users can contribute to the website by either editing existing entries or adding a new snake to the database. A search function is included to help users quickly find a snake in the database. The search results are labeled by Venomous Snakes/Harmless Snakes.
  
Christopher Allison designed the "Name That Snake" quiz.  The key objective of the quiz is to use the human brain's unique ability to recognize similarities in complex patterns to learn how to confidently identify snakes and particularly the venomous snakes of North Carolina. This will improve the safety of both the snakes and the residents of this state. This quiz displays a series of 5 snake pictures, each with 4 answer choices naming the snake. The user then, via radio buttons, chooses the name he/she believes to represent the snake in question for each snake picture.  Should the user name all 5 snakes correctly, they will be taken to a results page which shows they answered 5 out of 5 correct and compliments them on their snake knowledge. Should the wrong name be chosen for any of the pictures, the results page will list the names of the snakes answered incorrectly.  Regardless of whether or not any snake was named incorrectly, all pictures and answers will appear below the results, with the correct answer choice highlighted in yellow, thereby reminding all users the correct names of each of the snakes pictured.  Users who register can also submit their own snake pictures and answer choices, which over time will increase the question bank and provide a larger range of pictures, further helping users to build expertise in correctly recognizing and identifying snake species.  Users who are not logged in do not have the option to create a new quiz question, since we want to limit this option to registered users help ensure the accuracy of all questions. Each time the quiz is opened, a random sample of 5 questions from all existing questions is selected, helping to minimize the impact of rote memorization and improve the learning process.  This question randomness will improve as more questions are added to the database.  The randomness is accomplished via the random function, which stores a list of a random 5 question ids.  Since the answer choices are in a way randomly selected during question development, after the queryset is filtered against the 5 question ids, it is sorted by one of the answer choices, thereby providing a second layer of randomness in the selection process.  The reason a second layer of randomness is needed is related to the initial order of the snakes in the database.  Christopher added all harmless species prior to venomous species.  The random function, while displaying a different series of questions for each quiz, always had venomous snakes showing up in the final one or two questions. If this pattern is recognized by the user, this takes away from the learning process.  Sorting the selected subset of questions by one of the answer choices prior to displaying effectively gets rid of this undesirable pattern, improves the randomness and thus helps to drive the key objective.
